Hey guys, in this particular
video I have an interesting
challenge for you.
So here is a readme MD file and I
have created one challenge for you.
So actually I have not created,
I have asked Chat GPT
to create a challenge for us.
And I'll be using this
challenge along with you only
to see that how we can implement
all these challenges.
Okay, so this particular video is
going to give you a very good
understanding on how you can work
with Express in real world.
So let's just open the preview.
So here we have the preview
and let's see it step
by step and implement the code.
Okay, so what we have to do is
we have to setting up the server
with Express listening on
the port and creating a bookstore.
So we have to create a bookstore
kind of an application.
Okay, so project initialization
says that you have
to create a project folder.
That's fine.
Then what you have to do is
you have to do npm in it.
So all these steps are
mentioned here, right?
So you have to just
follow this document.
So I'll just tell you the outline
that we have to create a bookstore.
And, and if you scroll down
you will have some application
routes like slash books that
should return all the books.
Slash books, slash id.
Okay, now this is something special
that if you make a route
on like let's say/book/1,/book/2.
So this will return your
specific book by the ID.
You can create new books, you
can delete existing books.
So this is what we have to create.
Okay, so let's, let's jump
into the coding part, right?
Because that is where I
am most excited usually.
So what I can do is I
can just do an npm init.
So expressbook store is
fine, everything is good.
And yes, so npm install.
Now here is something
I want to tell you.
Very interesting, right?
Something new.
What I'm going to do is I'm going
to say at the rate types slash node
and one thing I will
do hyphen, hyphen save dev.
Okay.
Or, or, or I can just say hyphen D.
Now what is this thing?
When I do enter, you will see
something very interesting
in the package JSON instead of going
into the dependencies, now it
is inside a dev dependency.
Now see guys, this particular
thing I only need when
I am developing, right?
When I am inside my development
mode, once my project is ready,
I don't want to take this package
on my production server because
even if I take, that's fine.
I mean it's not a problem.
But my Packet size is going to
increase because this can be a 2, 3
MB file or something like that.
So, so if there is any dependency
that you only need on your
local machine, that means while
you are developing, then you
can just do an hyphen D.
Okay, so like for example Express.
Express.
Of course I need on production.
If Express is not there
on the production, my.
My application will crash.
So this is going to be
a dependency only.
Similarly, npm install@ the rate
types for Express is going
to be a dev dependency because
either I just need that
in the development server.
Got it.
Now let's configure a start
script which will do node,
hyphen, hyphen, Var, index js.
Nice.
Now and let's create
an index js file.
So first things first, let's
have the Express application.
So express equals require
and you can just say express.
Okay, Then let's create
an application.
So app is equals to express.
Sorry, sorry, sorry, my bad.
Express.
Fine.
Then let's create a port variable.
So port 8000.
Okay, so what this documentation
says that you have
to create a project folder.
Done.
Initialize the node.
You have to install Express.
We have done an index js file.
Now we have to we have
to listen on the port 8000.
So these rules are saying
that you have to listen
on port number 8,000, right?
So app do listen on this particular
port and I can just
say console do log that HTTP
server is running on port.
And I can just say port.
So whichever port the application is
running, I'll get that thing right?
So this part is also done.
So you have done the listening part.
Now we have to create
a bookstore data.
Now, as of now, we don't
have a database, right?
Initially these things
should be in the database.
But because we don't have
a database, we can actually
store it as an array.
So you can consider, okay, you
can just consider that this is my
in memory database, okay?
In memory database.
Now I know that I'm
violating a rule, right?
The rule was that you it
should be stateless.
But right now I don't
have a database, right?
Imagine guys, I don't
have a database.
So that is the reason I have
to create these things in memory.
Okay?
So right now we are violating a rule
because we don't have database.
But you can imagine
in future these things will be
moved into the database.
So every book has an id,
a title and an author, right?
So we have created a mock data.
Now we have to set
up a get route that if you want
to get all the books.
So very simple, right?
Very simple.
So what I can do is I can
just have a comment that
these are all my routes.
So if someone makes a get
route, a get request on slash
books, this is where I
should return all the books.
So what you can do is you
can just say response dot.
Now see guys, when you return
a response, the response can be
of different, different types.
For example you can send just
a text response, for example
for that when you do end, right?
When you do end you are just
sending a text response.
But usually we prefer
to send a JSON response.
What is a JSON?
JSON is basically a key value pair.
So what you can do is you can just
say hey I want to send a JSON
and directly give this books what
internally the express will do.
It will convert this array,
this array into a JSON
and set all the appropriate
headers and, and send these books
as a JSON to the front end.
Let me show you.
Okay, so this is done.
So this basically route
gets all the books and returns
to the front end.
So what I'm doing is here is I,
I'll just say npm start, right?
So this will start the server
in the Var mode.
So you can see that
the server is running.
Let's open the Thunder
client side by side.
Okay, so what I'm going to do is
I'll just say HTTP
localhost/books and send document.
You see that I'm able to get
all the books right as a JSON.
Now interestingly see one thing,
if I go into the headers, I'm
talking about response headers.
Okay, Response can also send headers.
So our server has set
some Headers for us.
Number one is X powered by Express.
So yeah, Express is doing a branding
content type application/JSON
from where this is coming.
When you send a JSON response
from the back end using X Express,
it automatically adds this header.
Then it is adding content length
and it is adding a date.
It is adding a E tag and a connection
close and you can see that this
is the response that is being sent.
You can even add your custom headers.
For example I can say
response do headers.
Okay, response dot set header.
Okay, so you can have a header like
anything xpiy and you can
set the value to as piushkar.
Let's, let's say.
So now see what will happen is
if I do a send, you get seven
headers and you can see that
I have a custom header.
So usually it's a good Practice
that if it is your custom header.
Usually we started with X.
Okay, this tells that
this is a custom header.
Similarly, it's okay, it's okay.
I mean if even I don't
sit, that will work fine.
But it's a convention that if
it's a custom header then you
should append it with like, you
should pin it with the X hyphen
like X powered by access thing.
Okay, so this is how you can
even send headers when you are
sending back the response.
So with this I have done my first
task that was to get all the routes.
So this is done.
Now we have to get a route
with the book.
Now see guys, can you see
on the client you have
two books ID one, ID two.
So let us say that I just,
I want to get the book
that is with ID1, right?
Right.
I just want to fetch all the data
for this particular book.
So what I can do is I want
a route in which I can say
something like books one.
So this right now is sending a 404.
This should send me all the book
data that has an ID 1.
Similarly books 2.
Now here, this is
a dynamic parameter.
This can be anything, right?
This class can be anything.
So what you can do in express
is you can just say app
dot get hey, if someone makes
a request to books slash one.
Now this is a, this should
be a dynamic thing.
So to make it dynamic you
can just say colon and name
this variable anything.
For example I'll name it as id.
So this particular thing, let me
just, you know, complete this code.
What this says that hey,
slash books slash anything.
This can be a parameter
that is anything.
It can be one, it can be
two, it can be anything.
It's a, dynamic.
So now I want to get the value
what user has added here.
So so first of all you can get the id
as request params.id if I have
named this variable as XYZ so
I have to say XYZ here as well.
So this basically says hey, from
the parameters get me the xyz.
So whatsoever user will put here that
will be available to me in the xyz.
Okay, you can even have multiple
parameters slash something which
is, which is hard coded, right?
Slash Then some dynamic parameter A.
Then you can again have a dynamic
parameter, let's say R.
Then you can see you
can access uh.id.r.
something like that.
But we are just interested
in this thing.
So I want to access the id.
Now this id, this book ID I have
to find in my Database.
So books is basically my database.
So I'll just say const book equals
books, all the books dot find.
Okay, I want to find one book where e
dot ID is actually equals to the id.
So it's kind of a database operation.
Do you remember like we do
like select star from books.
Okay.
Where ID equals.
So you can just pass
in whatever ID you have.
So it's basically this kind of
a thing that is I'm trying to mimic.
Now see, there are two things.
One, if there is no book, that means
user has given you an ID.
Let's say 10 and there
is no book with ID 10.
In this scenario, what should
be the status code
404 because it's a not found thing.
So return response.status404.
Let's send a JSON message which will
say an error that I'll just say book
with ID that whatever
user has given does not exist.
Okay, so this kind of an error.
But if you find the book,
you can just say return
response.JSON and just send
the book that you have found.
Nice.
Right?
So you have coded it.
So now if I say book slash 7
error book with ID 7 does not exist.
Let me get all the books.
So yeah, we have just two books.
I want to just get the data
for book two slash books slash to
enter, and we got an error.
Okay, I understand what the error is.
The error is actually this
ID is a string, okay?
Because you are passing
this two as a string.
So there are two fixes and either
you remove one equals,
right, because it's a string.
Now it will start working.
See, in case of five
you are getting error.
In case of two you get
the only book two.
In case of one you only get book one.
But if you don't specify anything,
you will get all the books.
Or what you can do is you can
basically do a parse end, okay?
You can typecast it to a number.
Now here you have to put an extra
check that if, if the ID is none,
that means it's not a number.
Maybe user is doing something
like slash books, slash A.
So A is not a number
in this particular scenario.
This is a bad request.
Now see, now understand this thing.
If I say slash book slash
A, this is a bad request.
A is not an ID, correct.
So if you say HTTP status
code bad request.
So bad request, it's 400.
Okay?
400.
So 400 means bad request.
So that means what we can
do is I can just say, hey,
if it's a not a number.
Return response.status400 okay.JSON
and let's give a good error message
that the ID must be of type number.
Okay, that's it.
So your ID must be of type number.
Now see, if user specifies
a, you get an error that
hey, it must be a number.
If you say six, it doesn't exist.
It's a four or four.
Right.
In case of W, it's a bad request.
But in case of two you get it.
In case of one you get it.
Right.
So that's how.
And if you don't specify
anything, you get all the books.
Nice.
So this part is also done and we
have done this part also.
So yeah, you can read it.
Okay.
Then we have to set up a post
route to add a new book.
Okay.
Now user can even add a new book.
So let's continue from here.
In the next video, I don't want
to increase the length of the video.
So right now what I will
suggest you is that just try
to understand this code, okay?
Just try to read this code that
what is happening in this code.
So I'll just pause the video here.
You can just pause the video
right here and try
to understand line by line
for everything what we are doing.